Story Recapped here. Today, I'm
going to explain a comedy, crime,
and drama film called "Robot and Frank."
Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
A faint light shines on a keyhole
as someone tries to pick it.
A burglar enters the home and rummages through
the belongings of the unsuspecting owner.
He grabs all the jewelry and money, but
a picture frame grabs his attention.
It is the owner's family, and the burglar,
Frank, realizes what he's doing and leaves.
In Cold Spring New York, Frank cleans up some
broken glass and deposits a frame into his safe.
He tries to eat his cereal but finds
that the milk has spoiled. After a while,
he receives a call from his daughter,
Madison, who is currently in Turkmenistan.
She assures him that she's well and
checks up on his Father’s condition.
The connection suddenly gets cut
off, leaving Frank disappointed.
Frank walks down the road, and a remarkably thin
vehicle passes him. He arrives at the library,
and there, Jennifer, the librarian, meets him. He
dusts off his ancient flirting skills and asks for
her phone number. Jennifer laughs but denies
his proposition. As they try to find a book,
a robot named Mr. Darcy disrupts them. Jennifer
informs Frank about the library’s renovation,
saying that she won’t be working there anymore.
Frank then gets a call from his son, Hunter. They
talk about a restaurant down the street that Frank
intends to eat at, only to realize they've closed.
Meanwhile, Frank enters a shop. The kleptomaniac
within him cannot help but swipe items on display.
The clerk notices this and threatens to call
the cops on him, so he acts innocent and leaves.
While walking, his son catches up to him.
Hunter scolds his old man for not waiting.
Frank enters the car, and they drive home.
At home, Frank criticizes Hunter's parenting,
saying he shouldn't buy his kids toys and gadgets.
Hunter agrees to disagree and changes the
conversation to Frank's messy home. He
confronts his father about his memory problem, but
Frank is too proud to accept any help. However,
Hunter's excitement doesn't dissolve as he leads
Frank to his car. In the trunk is a robot. Frank
instantly expresses his dissatisfaction,
but Hunter says to give it a chance.
The robot turns on and greets Frank; Frank
interrogates him by asking why it knows who he is.
The robot enters the home to clean up the
mess and whips something up for them to eat.
At the dinner table, Frank asks about
his ex-wife. Hunter says that she also
has a robot that she appreciates, unlike
Frank. The robot then enters the room
with a freshly baked cake and offers
his assistance and company to Frank.
He harshly denies it, causing Hunter to
show his frustration. Hunter stands his
ground and says that the robot will stay or
else he'll send Frank to a retirement home.
Hunter drives away, leaving the two standing on
the porch. Frank tries to turn the robot off,
but it requests for him to let
go so it can do the dishes.
The robot does all the errands, from
taking out the trash to buying groceries,
seamlessly integrating itself into
Frank's life. It wakes up Frank,
and he waves his hands in front of
it, again forgetting where the robot
came from. For breakfast, the robot hands him a
piece of grapefruit, but Frank asks for cereal.
The robot says cereal is for children, and Frank
calls it stupid. While the robot talks about plans
for them to start a garden, Frank leaves to get
some cookies. He ignores the robot, so it starts
to call Hunter. Frank pleads it not to because
he doesn't want to go to the retirement home.
Leaves fall on a patch of soil the
robot's preparing. Frank sits from afar,
staring at it judgingly. For lunch, Frank is
served a portion of healthy greens and rice.
He looks unhappy as he
desperately wants his cereal back.
In the forest, they take a walk while Frank
expresses his hatred of hikes. He says that
he'd rather die than do what the robot wants him
to do. The robot guilt trips Frank by saying that
it'll be sent back to the warehouse if he dies.
Frank changes his attitude and leads the way.
The two arrive at the library, and Frank asks
the robot to wait outside. Mr. Darcy meets him
at the desk, and he asks for Jennifer. Jennifer
is talking to the library’s new owner, Jake,
and Frank introduces himself. He doesn't remember
the talk they had yesterday about the renovation.
When Jake leaves, Frank
instantly forgets who he is.
……………………………….
An upset Frank observes as every
book in the library gets taken. To try and cheer
him up, Jennifer shows him her most valuable book.
Frank exits the library to see a group of kids
playing with the robot. He advises the robot
to say self-destruct sequence initialized so
the kids won't bother it anymore. The robot
doesn't understand, and they make their way to
the restaurant that Frank forgot was closed.
At the store, Frank pockets another figurine. A
new clerk meets them who offers their lavender
soaps. She compliments the robot, but the
woman from before shows aggression towards
Frank. Frank sneakily returns the item while
the woman threatens to make a citizen's arrest.
He reveals his empty pockets
and proceeds to leave the store.
On their way home, Frank complains to
his daughter about his new companion.
As they converse, Frank realizes that
the item he tried to steal is in the bag.
The robot confesses that it got the
item as it thought that Frank forgot it.
Back at home, Frank asks the robot
if it knows what stealing is.
He further asks if the robot is programmed to
obey the law, to which the robot replies no.
With this newfound information, he feels as
though having the robot around isn't that bad.
But the robot's sudden reminder of his
enema makes him retract that thought.
The next day, Frank teaches the robot how to
pick a lock. They chat about Frank's past and
his life as a criminal. The robot knows his past
allegations but not the James Bondesque stories
he has. Frank was a jewelry thief living a life
of crime and excitement. After a while, the robot
successfully picks the lock. The two form a bond
as Frank realizes what he and the robot can do.
At the library, the two inspect the
scene of their first potential robbery.
Jennifer finally meets the robot and introduces
it to Mr. Darcy. The two talk about how technology
has caught up to them. Books are now available
anywhere on the web; hence, the less of a need
for actual libraries. She invites him for the
upcoming fundraiser, and Frank happily accepts.
Later that night, Hunter calls Frank while they're
preparing. He complains about Madison scolding him
for bringing Frank a robot. Hunter says that the
robot will stay whether Frank likes it or not.
Strangely enough, he agrees, saying that
he wants to keep the robot for good.
In the middle of the night, Frank and
the robot prepare to enter the library.
Frank spraypaints the camera, and
then the robot picks the lock.
Inside, the robot opens the bookcase while Frank
checks the building’s blueprints. He babbles on
about his life, and the robot reminds him to be
quiet. Frank asks why it's wearing a space helmet,
and they exit the building, with Frank
unknowingly leaving his glasses behind.
Morning arrives, and yet another
plate of healthy breakfast is served.
Frank doesn't mind the food anymore as
he's too busy planning their next robbery.
At the fundraiser, Frank stands out amongst the
crowd, looking timeless in his suit. Jennifer
stands beside him, feeling uneasy. She tells Frank
about someone who broke into the library the night
before. In the distance, the robot brings the
stolen book all wrapped up, but Frank signals
him to abort. The two interact with the robots,
encouraging them to mingle with one another.
Jake and his wife approach them, he compliments
Frank, but Frank mistook it as an insult.
Jake laughs it off and steals Jennifer
for a while. The night continues,
and Frank looks more and more
anxious at every passing second.
Jake approaches him and asks him if he ever went
to prison. Frank neither confirms nor denies,
so Jake asks if he wears reading glasses.
Frank lies, and Jake asks him to leave.
Jennifer returns to Frank after mingling with
the crowd. Frank expresses his concern as he
finds it odd how everyone at the party looks
wealthy, but Jennifer thinks he just had too
much to drink. Frank then zones out and focuses
on the piece of jewelry a woman is wearing.
At home, Frank reviews images taken
from the party. He plans to rob again,
but this time, the robot doesn't want to help
him. The only way it will agree is if Frank
guarantees there's no risk. He agrees with
that condition, and his gears start turning.
Frank looks at a man from afar using his
binoculars. They talk about how the robot
didn't speak to Mr. Darcy last night, seeming as
if Frank provokes the robot to show its sentience.
Later that day, Jennifer visits Frank for
their dinner, disrupting his scheming session.
He asks her to come back later, and she
leans her head on the door in frustration.
Frank finally opens the door,
only to see her driving away.
Frank is back at his study table,
meticulously finalizing their plan.
The robot is happy with Frank's regained
enthusiasm. He even challenges the robot
to arm wrestle. He struggles embarrassingly,
but a sudden knock on the door interrupts them.
It's Madison, finally finding the time
to visit her father. They reconnect,
and she says that she's there to save him. Madison
then whispers into the robot, turning it off.
Later that day, Madison shares
her experiences in Turkmenistan.
Frank doesn't listen as he
worries about his friend.
A new day comes, and Frank's morning is incomplete
as his companion is not there to greet him.
He approaches the robot and tries to wake it up.
Madison returns home with some
groceries and a box of cereal.
Frank says he prefers the robot's cooking
and asks her to wake it up, but she refuses.
In the woods, Frank is all alone as he observes
their target. He feels frustrated as his companion
is not there to assist him. Frank returns
home and makes a mess of the kitchen as he
looks for something. He asks Madison to make
some lasagna, and she accepts the challenge.
Madison serves a sad bowl of pasta
with red sauce to her father.
He insults the dish and says he wants
to eat at the restaurant in the town.
She reminds him that it's closed and asks
for him to appreciate the food she cooked.
With no choice, he eats the food, blurting
out that he doesn't need her to be with him.
Morning arrives, and Frank makes his way
downstairs to see the living room spotless.
He confronts a busy Madison who says she just
finished cleaning up. Frank doubts his daughter
and asks if she turned on the robot. She denies
his accusations and still refuses to turn the
robot on. Frank snaps and throws a bag of pasta at
her, saying that the robot is not some slave that
she can just turn on and off. Madison admits that
she used the robot, and he comforts his frustrated
daughter. Frank again asks for her to turn
the robot on, saying he needs his friend back.
The robot awakens, and Frank whispers that
they'll execute the robbery later at night.
Night arrives, and Frank starts to explain
the plan. The target is the couple,
Jake and his wife. They plan to steal jewelry
in their home while they're out for an event.
Now that it knows all the details,
the robot asks how they’ll accomplish
such a feat as their house will most
likely have top-notch security systems.
Frank says that security systems are designed
by security companies and not thieves.
Someone like him can easily find a spot
that the system doesn't account for.
The two sneak around the house, trying to find
a way in. Luckily, a door without an alarm is
conveniently left open. Frank effortlessly finds
the safe, and the robot is tasked to try every
lock combination until it gets it right. As
they try to leave, Jake and his wife arrive.
The two eavesdrop on the fighting couple, but the
fight quickly turns into passionate love-making.
Back at home, Frank examines their spoils and is
shocked to find extremely high-quality jewelry.
He hides it in his safe, but he
doesn't seem happy with the outcome.
The next day, Frank and Madison lounge in
the backyard. Their relaxation time gets
interrupted by Jake and the sheriff. Jake
accuses Frank of stealing his belongings,
but Frank plays dumb. Meanwhile, the sheriff is
starstruck at the sight of the infamous thief.
Despite being a prime suspect, the sheriff
believes that someone Frank’s age can't pull off
such a complex robbery. He even invites Frank to
be his consultant. However, he rejects the offer.
Before leaving, Jake shouts, saying he knows
Frank did it. The sheriff pulls him away,
knocking the drink off the table, which
the robot then catches instantaneously.
The sheriff notices this and
leaves without saying anything.
Later that day, Madison says her goodbyes.
Frank gives her some jewelry as a gift and
assures her that it isn't from Jake. She
drives off, passing a van parked outside
Frank's home. Frank and the robot enter the
house and speculate what the van's doing there.
Smoke spews out the chimney as Frank burns up all
the evidence of the robbery. The robot warns Frank
that the sheriff can use its memory against
him, advising Frank to reformat its memory.
Frank frantically stores the jewelry
in a plastic bag. He tries to cut the
piece in half, but he injures his
finger. The robot bandages him up,
and Frank grows unstable. Frank tells the
robot to call Hunter and tell him he's dying.
Hunter drives to Frank's home looking anxious.
Meanwhile, Frank lays in his bed to try and act
sick. Hunter enters the room and wakes his father
up. Frank puts on a show, acting all dramatic and
emotional. He apologizes for not being a good
father, thanking Hunter for always taking care
of him. His son reminisces about their humble
past, but Frank transitions the conversation to
his genuine objective, asking his son to take the
case filled with the stolen goods somewhere safe.
Hunter is reluctant, but an intense cough
from his father makes him accept immediately.
As Hunter drives off, the van blocks
him, and police start surrounding him.
The sheriff interrogates him and opens up the
trunk. Inside the bag are the figurines Frank
stole from the store. Jake is still suspicious
and demands the sheriff to search the house.
The police begin their search, and Hunter
worries about his supposedly sick father.
Frank gives him a cheeky look and says he's just
cooperating with the cops. Hunter is frustrated
with his father's games and berates him about
pretending to be dying. He insults him and
the robot, who stays silent throughout the mess.
Jake realizes something and suggests downloading
the robot's memory. Jake starts hitting the robot,
but it suddenly initiates a self-destruct sequence
and starts counting down. Frank runs out, but
Hunter assures them that the robot is lying.
But as the countdown nears zero, they can't help
but run away, only to realize that it's lying.
Frank drives away in Hunter's car,
picking the robot up in the backyard.
Hunter sarcastically commends the
police, and Jake stands dumbfounded.
In the car, the robot revisits the
idea of reformatting its memory.
Frank doesn't want to do it and says they'll
just run off together. They stop at the library,
lockpicking their way into Jennifer's office. He
shares his problem, and Jennifer realizes that he
took the book. Frank confesses, but the picture
frames grab his attention. He takes the photo of
Jennifer and her husband and sees himself.
Frank realizes that Jennifer is his wife,
and with that realization, he kisses her. He
and the robot leave the library to walk home.
In his room, Frank's condition deteriorates. The
robot urges him again to reformat its memory,
saying that they can continue to plan their next
heist afterward. It finally convinces Frank,
and he agrees. Frank presses the button
at the back of the robot, turning it off.
Days pass and Hunter approaches his father,
who has been entirely consumed by his memory
loss. Frank has suffered the same fate as
his friend. He reunites with his family,
eating at the same table, sharing laughs
and stories. As they say their goodbyes,
Frank hands Hunter a note. In it states to check
under the robot’s garden for the jewelry he stole.